fire-making is one of the simpler skills
in runescape many people seem to think
it's one of the most useless skills in
the game but there are actually quite a
few uses to it the most common use is
obviously a portable range but it's also
nude women venturing in dark caves and
sometimes when training prayer training
fire making is straightforward you use a
tinder box on a log the log is dropped
and lit and it ignites in the fire
giving experience in the process after
each log is lit the player will move
west one spot unless there's an
obstruction this is important to keep in
mind when training fire-making and on
that note it's also important to know
that if your fire-making level is high
enough and you're quick enough you can
automatically burn another log
immediately after you burn the first log
in this video i'm showing you an example
of this
alright let's talk about logotypes the
first log you can burn is the normal log
I suggest going to level 20 with these
at 32 GP each and giving 40 XP each log
you'll need 112 logs to get to level 20
it should only cost 3584 GP personally I
suggest cutting these yourself there's a
lot of them west of lumbridge castle and
another clump just in the east of a rock
once you're done with these it's time to
move onto Oakes oak logs give 60
experience / log in your new goal is
level 35 from here you'll need to burn
299 o'clock's which costs about 8,000
372 GP unless you want wood couldn't
experience as well I would suggest
buying these from the grand exchange for
28 JP each and now comes the real work
from level 35 to 50 you need to burn 877
willow logs each log gives 90 XP
fortunately these are the cheapest logs
you cost only 18gp each again I would
suggest buying these unless you want
some wood cutting experience if bought
these will cost fifteen thousand 786 GP
and now we come to a fork in the road
some players continue to lie twilla logs
all the way to level 99 this involves
letting 144,000 willow logs some players
get in and I'm wood cutting with willow
logs and then burn them and others by
the logs if bought it will only cost 2.6
million which is very reasonable for a
99 especially a viable overall i give
this method 3 of 5 it's very cheap but
it just takes too long a knife in
before I move on there's something worth
mentioning there's a minigame that's
accessible after the completion of the
quest all fired up the goal of this
minigame is to light all 14 beacons
stretching from the temple of patter
duelists all the way to the ice plateau
near the edge of the wilderness for
keeping six beacons lip you'll be
granted a ring of fire which requires 62
fire-making gives a two-percent
experience boost in any firemen
connectivity well worn for keeping ten
beacons lid EULA granted fire gloves
which require level 79 fire-making and
also give it two percent boost well fire
making however if the ring and gloves
are worn together they'll grant a five
percent boost and finally for keeping
all 14 beacons lit you'll be granted an
inferno ads which requires level 92
fire-making and will incinerate about
thirty three percent of any logs you cut
so why does this matter well if you use
will go afloat line and I'm with willows
you'll use about 138,000 willows that's
a difference of 6000 little logs which
in the long run could save you a few
hours and a bit of money also if you
have 92 fire-making already and are
cutting logs for 99 or just cutting logs
for what kind experience using the
inferno ads will give you some fire
making experience as you cut this means
that if you're say how are cutting teak
sonipat ol you won't have to drop logs
as often and can instead cut more now
that i've talked about bad enough let's
go back to that one fork in the road the
other option is to use maple logs until
level 65 this will require about 2600
mate belongs if bought this will cost
about 100k as each log costs 38 GP
and inevitably we come across another
fork in the road on the journey to 99
firemaking personally I went all the way
to night and I Naples which required
about 96,000 maple logs total this costs
at 3.7 million which again is very
reasonable for a 99 however if you use
the ring of fire and the flame gloves
you'll only need to use about 92,000
maples save you about 200k if you bought
them as well as a couple of hours
overall I give maples a 4 out of 5 a
pretty cheap and compared to willows
they're a lot faster your other path is
to go eucalyptus logs if you're up for
these Long's cost 390 gold and only 7142
of them are required to get to level 80
this will cost just under 3.1 million if
you're wanting to get to level 99 with
these lungs you'll use just under sixty
five thousand of them which costs a
little over 25 million with the bonuses
from the ring and gloves that can be
reduced to about 62,000 logs cussing
just over 24 million I think by now it's
obvious that using item boosts is a good
idea now I'd give this method of three
out of five mostly because of the cost
compared to maples I think that a
thirty-three percent increase in speed
doesn't justify a six hundred eighty
five percent increase in cost you may be
wondering why I'm not talking about use
well when compared to eucalyptus lungs
they give less than 10 X be more per log
and costs about twenty percent more
without the boost it would cost about 30
million and only save an hour compared
to equal abyss to a five
all right time to talk about magic logs
well it's probably not the first log
that comes to mind with speaking a
fire-making but magics are nonetheless
used to raise fire-making requiring 30
6368 logs for 9 a-9 without boosts
costing about 1285 GP / log you'll be
looking at spending around 47 million
with boosts this is decreased 30 4635
logs required in forty four point five
million spent although this is probably
the quickest way to get experience I
consider it a waste and I gave it a 205
and finally there's one more thing
concerning boots that I should talk
about summoning familiars to familiars
the power Lord and the four dredgen can
act as a tinderbox and give a 10 XP
boost / log when burned with them
unfortunately the speed at which you
fire Mike using them is load here's the
side-by-side comparison you may want to
keep this in mind if you're considering
using 12 local online right one of the
most important aspects of fire-making is
location you need to find an area that
has a great big open field with which to
fire me again for your convenience I've
suggested a few places in my news these
include the Rock West Bank the Pisgah
Taurus fishing colony and I don't want a
butcher this name so just this place and
the felon or east bank keep in mind that
these are just suggestions so you don't
necessarily have to use them if you find
a place that you think is better go for
it
and for all the pyromaniac set there
there's one method that i should mention
what it involves is going west halfway
through your inventory and then going
east the other hat unfortunately this
involves a lot of manual clicking and
it's easy to get messed up but this can
speed up your training time considerably
because the places you closer back to
where you started well that pretty much
sums up the fire making skill of course
there are a few other ways to train such
as lighting orbs in the dorkish and
caves however for practical purposes I
won't include that on this guide if
you're interested look it up in the
knowledge base well I hope this guide
has helped you in some way or another if
you've got questions you can comment or
PM me on youtube and i'll try to get
back to you thanks very much for
watching